It's important to begin by
understanding the
blockchain ecosystem.
The dynamics of
the blockchain are
rooted in its ecosystem.
That means the community
of producers,
suppliers, customers,
stakeholders, and competitors.
But it's also
important to note that
many smaller ecosystems also
comprise the
blockchain ecosystem.
In fact, many blockchain
companies do not
easily fit into one area
of the ecosystem,
they can in fact encompass
more than one component
of that community.
The blockchain ecosystem
is a living map,
that exhibits constant change.
It's important for us
to recognize that it
will require
our continued attention,
study, and updating overtime.
What is blockchain?
Blockchain is a technology
that arose with
the invention of the digital
currency Bitcoin in 2009.
It is a shared,
immutable ledger that facilitates
the recording of
transactions in a network.
Blockchain provides
the means for recording
any transaction or track
the movement of any asset,
not just digital currency.
The assets recorded
on blockchain can
be tangible such as cash,
gold or real estate,
or they can be intangible such
as intellectual property,
copyrights or even licenses.
Blockchain stores data in blocks
that are linked
together in a chain.
Hence, the name blockchain.
Thus, as the number of
transactions grows,
so too does the blockchain.
Each block in the
blockchain contains a
"hash" or digital fingerprint,
a timestamped batch of
valid transactions,
and the hash or
digital fingerprint of
the previous block in the chain.
The previous block hash,
links the blocks together
and prevents any block from
being altered or any change
in the order of the blocks.
Blocks are added to
the blockchain based
on a set of rules that
are agreed on by the
participants in that network.
As a result, each block in
the blockchain strengthens
the verification
of the previous block.
This very intricate structure of
the blockchain results in
several key attributes.
First, the network
is decentralized,
meaning it is spread across
many different people or parties.
Secondly, blockchain results in
an increase in transparency since
copies of the ledger or
records are stored on
every single block.
Security of the blockchain
is considered very strong,
because of the use of
both public and
private keys that are
used to encrypt or
secure the blockchain.
There's a lower
likelihood of hacking
the block chain given
the immutable nature of it.
Because of these key attributes
of the blockchain,
it has a unique quality and
the potential to transform
businesses over time.
We'll explore this further in
our discussion of the
blockchain ecosystem.